# exempleRDA

# In the field of cultural heritage, many collections of research publications are still blocked in the “deep web” and difficult for researchers to access. For bibliographic institutions, making their collections accessible to as many people as possible represents a major challenge in terms of sovereignty.
# A well-known solution to this problem is the publication of bibliographic collections using semantic web standards and technologies to enhance their reusability. This design-thinking technology puts the user's needs first. The decision to implement it is a global one, as evidenced by the birth of the Bibliographic Transition committee in France (2014), the RDA code in 2010 and the BIBFRAME code in 2017.

# However, for many large heritage institutions, this task is fraught with complex problems :
# •	Their collections are stored in specific databases using old-fashioned flat structures, far removed from the recommendations of the semantic web. 
# •	Collections contain millions of resources, making the whole conversion process long and tedious.
# •	A large number of alignments are required between bibliographic standards and semantic web standards.
# These three issues make the transformation of collections into the semantic web a major challenge that may well exceed the operational capacity of documentary institutions.
 
# Our project aims to meet this challenge by offering a new solution for large institutions to publish their collections according to semantic web standards.
# To achieve this, we have committed to setting up a demonstrator in a real environment, which will be tested on 18 million bibliographic resources from the “Agence bibliographique de l'enseignement supérieur” (ABES).
# The LRM-Factory project is supported by France 2030 as part of the PIA4 “Numérisation du patrimoine et de l'architecture” (Digitisation of Heritage and Architecture).
# The ABES-initiated project is led by the ACASE (“Accès à la Culture, aux Arts et aux Sciences par les Entités”) consortium, made up of three partners: the Tech'Advantage company, the Senolys startup and the “Centre de Documentation des Hospices Civils de Lyon” (HCL), France's second-largest university hospital. Each member of the consortium has a role to play in the project. Tech'Advantage is the owner and developer of Syrtis, an integrated library system (ILS) capable of producing and receiving RDA records. Syrtis is the ILS we use in the project to control and visualize RDA records. Senolys owns and produces COM3T, based on J. Decourselle's thesis during his internship at Tech'Advantage, a tool used for mass migration of records. This is the tool we use during the project to perfect the migration rules. Finally, HCL are the documentation experts who will work on defining and perfecting these rules. Our aim is also to enable libraries to reproduce the project themselves, so one of our missions is to produce documentation that is as clear and reusable as possible for everyone.
# This tool reads bibliographic templates to convert data from one format to another, saving time for operational teams. The LRM-Factory project is designed to produce an online mass migration tool for processing library data in a variety of formats. This one-and-a-half year project focuses on the conversion of ABES UNIMARC records (MARC format) to RDA (Resource: Description and Access).
